Feature/lockfiles new (#1790)
conan-io/docs: versioning/lockfiles/introduction.rst

    .. code:: bash

        $ git clone https://github.com/conan-io/examples.git
        $ cd features/lockfiles/intro
        # $ python build.py only to run the full example, but better go step by step

Locking dependencies
--------------------

This example uses ``full_version_mode``, that is, if a package changes any part of its version, its consumers will
need to build a new binary because a new ``package_id`` will be computed. This example will use version ranges, and
it is not necessary to have revisions enabled. It also do not require a server, everything can be reproduced locally.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conan config set general.default_package_id_mode=full_version_mode

Let's start by creating from the recipe and source in the ``pkga`` folder, a first ``pkg/0.1@user/testing`` 
package in our local cache:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conan create pkga pkga/0.1@user/testing

Now we want to start developing and testing the code for ``pkgb``, but we want to create a "snapshot" of the
dependency graph, to isolate our development from possible changes (note that the recipe in *pkgb/conanfile.py*
contains a require like ``requires = "pkga/[>0.0]@user/testing"``). 

> .. code-block:: bash
> 
>     $ conan lock create conanfile.py --user=user --channel=testing --lockfile-out=locks/pkgb_deps.lock
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd pkgb
    $ conan lock create conanfile.py --user=user --channel=testing --lockfile-out=locks/pkgb_deps.lock

```

This will create a *pkgb_deps.lock* file in the *locks* folder. Note that we have passed the user and channel of the future
package that we will create as ``--user=user --channel=testing``.

> Lets have a look to this lockfile:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's have a look at the lockfile:
```

                    "prev": "0",
                    "context": "host"
                }
            },
            "revisions_enabled": false
        },
        "version": "0.4",
        "profile_host": "[settings]\narch=x86_64\narch_build=x86_64\nbuild_type=Release\ncompiler=Visual Studio\ncompiler.runtime=MD\ncompiler.version=15\nos=Windows\nos_build=Windows\n[options]\n[build_requires]\n[env]\n"
    }

We can see the ``pkga/0.1@user/testing`` dependency in the lockfile, together with its ``package_id``. This
dependency is fully locked. The ``pkgb/0.1@user/testing`` doesn't have a ``package_id`` yet, because so far it
is just a local *conanfile.py* as a consumer, not a package. But the ``user/testing`` user and channel are already defined.

It is important to note that the *pkgb_deps.lock* lockfile contains the current ``profile`` for the current configuration.
 
At this moment we have captured the dependency graph for ``pkgb``. Now, it would be possible that a new version 
of ``pkga`` is created:

.. code-block:: bash

    # The recipe generates different package code depending on the version, automatically

>     $ conan create pkga pkga/0.2@user/testing

Reviewer: also `cd ..` before this?

Author: Yes, adding it.

If now we install and build our code in ``pkgb`` we would get:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ mkdir pkgb/build
    $ cd pkgb/build
    $ conan install ..
    > ... pkga/0.2@user/testing from local cache - Cache
    # Example for VS, use your compiler here
    $ cmake ../src -G "Visual Studio 15 Win64"
    $ cmake --build . --config Release
    $ ./bin/greet
    HelloA 0.2 Release
    HelloB Release!
    Greetings Release!

> But as explained above, the purpose of the lockfile is to capture the dependencies, and used them later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But as explained above, the purpose of the lockfile is to capture the dependencies and use them later.
```

> Lets pass the lockfile as an argument to guarantee the usage of the locked ``pkga/0.1@user/testing`` dependency:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's pass the lockfile as an argument to guarantee the usage of the locked ``pkga/0.1@user/testing`` dependency:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conan install .. --lockfile=../locks/pkgb_deps.lock
    > ... pkga/0.1@user/testing from local cache - Cache
    $ cmake ../src -G "Visual Studio 15 Win64"
    $ cmake --build . --config Release
    $ ./bin/greet
    HelloA 0.1 Release
    HelloB Release!
    Greetings Release!

> That's it. We managed to depend on ``pkga/0.1@user/testing`` instead of the ``pkga/0.2@user/testing`` even if the later

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That's it. We managed to depend on ``pkga/0.1@user/testing`` instead of the ``pkga/0.2@user/testing`` although the later
```

> satisfy the version range and is available in the cache, because we reproduced the same dependency graph at the time
> the lockfile was captured.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
satisfies the version range and is available in the cache. Using the same dependency was possible because we used the information stored in the lockfile.
```

Immutability
------------

A core concept of lockfiles is their immutability and the integrity of its data:

.. important::

>     Whatever is locked in a lockfile cannot be changed. Any attempt to modify locked data will result in 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The information stored in a lockfile cannot be changed. Any attempt to modify locked data will result in 
```

    an error.

> For example, if now we try to do a ``install`` that also builds ``pkga`` from source:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, if now we try to do a :command:`conan install` that also builds ``pkga`` from source:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conan install .. --lockfile=../locks/pkgb_deps.lock --build=pkga
    ERROR: Cannot build 'pkga/0.1@user/testing' because it is already locked in the input lockfile

It is an error, because the ``pkga/0.1@user/testing`` dependency was fully locked. When the lockfile was created, the
``pkga/0.1@user/testing`` was found, including a binary, and that information was stored. Everytime this lockfile is

> used, it assumes this package and binary exists and it will try to get it, but it will never allow to re-build, because

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
used, it assumes this package and binary exist and it will try to get them, but it will never allow to re-build, because
```

that can violate the integrity of the lockfile. For example, if we were using ``package_revision_mode``, a new binary
of ``pkga`` would produce new package-ids of all its consumers, that will not match the package-ids stored in the lockfile.

> It is possible though to control what is being locked with the ``--build`` argument provided to the ``conan lock create``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is possible though to control what is being locked with the ``--build`` argument provided to the :command:`conan lock create`
```

command.

> The same principle applies if we try to create a package for ``pkgb``, but tries to alter the user and channel ``user/testing``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The same principle applies if we try to create a package for ``pkgb` and it tries to alter the user and channel ``user/testing``
```

> that were provided at ``conan lock create`` command above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that were provided at the time of the :command:`conan lock create` command used above.
```

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cd ..
    $ conan create . user/stable --lockfile=locks/pkgb_deps.locked
    ERROR: Attempt to modify locked pkgb/0.1@user/testing to pkgb/0.1@user/stable

Again, it is important to keep the integrity. Package recipes can have conditional or parameterized dependencies, based on
user and channel for example. If we try to create the ``pkgb`` package with different user and channel, it could result in

> a different dependency graph, totally incompatible with the used lockfile. If ``pkgb/0.1@user/testing`` was stored in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a different dependency graph, totally incompatible with the one captured in the lockfile. If ``pkgb/0.1@user/testing`` was stored in
```

the lockfile, any command using this lockfile must respect and keep it without changes.

Reproducibility
---------------

> That doesn't mean that a lockfile cannot evolve at all. Using the ``--lockfile`` argument, we are able to create

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That doesn't mean that a lockfile cannot evolve at all. Using the :command:`--lockfile` argument, we are able to create
```

> ``pkgb/0.1@user/testing`` guaranteeing it is being created depending on ``pkga/0.1@user/testing``, and if we use the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``pkgb/0.1@user/testing`` guaranteeing it is being created depending on ``pkga/0.1@user/testing``. Additionally, if we use the
```

> ``--lockfile-out`` argument, we can obtain an updated version of the lockfile:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:command:`--lockfile-out` argument, we can obtain an updated version of the lockfile:
```

    $ cd ..
    $ conan create . user/stable --lockfile=locks/pkgb_deps.locked
    ERROR: Attempt to modify locked pkgb/0.1@user/testing to pkgb/0.1@user/stable

Again, it is important to keep the integrity. Package recipes can have conditional or parameterized dependencies, based on
user and channel for example. If we try to create the ``pkgb`` package with different user and channel, it could result in
a different dependency graph, totally incompatible with the one captured in the lockfile. If ``pkgb/0.1@user/testing`` was stored in
the lockfile, any command using this lockfile must respect and keep it without changes.

Reproducibility
---------------

That doesn't mean that a lockfile cannot evolve at all. Using the :command:`--lockfile` argument, we are able to create
``pkgb/0.1@user/testing`` guaranteeing it is being created depending on ``pkga/0.1@user/testing``. Additionally, if we use the
:command:`--lockfile-out` argument, we can obtain an updated version of the lockfile:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conan create . user/testing --lockfile=locks/pkgb_deps.lock --lockfile-out=locks/pkgb.lock

And if we inspect the new *locks/pkgb.lock* file:

.. code-block:: json

>     {
>         "0": {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {
        ...
        "0": {
```

            "ref": "pkgb/0.1@user/testing",
            "options": "shared=False",
            "package_id": "2418b211603ca0a3858d9dd1fc1108d54a4cab99",
            "prev": "0",
            "modified": true,
            "requires": ["1"],
            "context": "host"

>         }
>     }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        }
        ...
    }
```
